# WEATHER STATIONS SYSTEM

## INFORMAL REQUIREMENTS

The government of a country with large areas of wilderness decides to deploy several hundred **weather stations** in remote areas. Stations collect and process data from a set of instruments that measure :

- Temperature
- Pressure
- Sunshine
- Rainfall
- Wind speed
- Wind direction.

Stations are used by **logged technicians** that are able to :

- Sign up thus log in
- Do measurements
- Check the general health condition of the stations
- Compile reports about faulty parts
- Check for software updates

A **maintenance station** is present to monitor measures and fix HW/SW problems (including batteries and signal).

The **Software** supports dynamic configuration and can be upgraded, downgraded and backed up.

## SCENARIOS

5 scenarios were implemented:

1. A user can **sign up** as a technician inserting Name, Username and Password. The system will automatically assign a numerical _id_. Then the new technician can **log in** using the _id_ and the Password.
2. Weather stations collect, process and show **real time measurements**. All the measurements are then stored in a database.
3. Technicians through weather stations can **check measurements and request new ones**. This includes checking for faults and eventually report them.
4. Maintenance station can **produce real time reports** about signal or batteries problems and manage reports received by technicians.
5. Software can be **upgraded and downgraded**, supporting dynamic configuration. Backup is always done.

### DESIGN

The project was developed using an **incremental approach**. Software design were represented using UML diagrams.
Following diagrams were implemented in UML:

* 1 general Class diagram
* 5 UseCase diagrams, one for each scenario
* 5 Activity diagrams, one for each scenario
* 5 Sequence diagrams, one for each scenario

## QUALITY ASSURANCE


###ACCEPTANCE TEST SELECTION

A total of 14 acceptance tests were implemented in the class _AppTest_. 
All the acceptance tests reflect different faces of all the important software features.
Here are all acceptance test cases grouped by scenario:

1. 5 tests were dedicated to the authentication and the login of the users:
    * _testLoginWrong()_
    * _testBlankLogin()_
    * _testLoginToRegistration()_
    * _testRegistrationBlank()_
    * _testRegistrationOk()_
2. 3 tests were dedicated to the technicians activities:
    * _testControlHome()_
    * _testHomeReport()_
    * _testMonitorMeasures()_
3. 1 test was dedicated to the data archiving and processing:
    * _testDataArchiving()_
4. 3 tests were dedicated to system health and faults report:
    * _testHealthChecking()_
    * _testWrongFaultReport()_
    * _testOkFaultReport()_
5. 2 tests were dedicated to software upgrade/downgrade:
    * _testUpgradeVersion()_
    * _testDowngradeVersion()_

###UNIT TEST COVERAGE

The **AppController** class has already been tested with acceptance tests, so it hasn't undergone extensive unit testing.

With this in mind, test coverage done with JaCoCo **including the appcontroller** reached a value of:

- 74% instructions
- 54% branches

By excluding AppController, therefore, much higher values ​​are reached, especially on the instructions.
